[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Chinese medicine is steeped
in tradition like this tea.
This is pu-ehr tea.
Pu-ehr tea comes from China, and
it's part of Chinese medicine.
This next master, unlike other
Chinese medicine masters,
he has cultivated the
ancient traditions,
the ancient teachings,
the secret teachings.
Chinese medicine is based
on the energy paradigm.
Not the physiology,
but the energy system.
How the energy moves
influences the physiology,
and this is the basis of
this particular medicine.
Now, the sifu-- he is powerful.
When he sends energy or qi
through a patient's body,
he described it as getting
a year of acupuncture
in a week of treatment.
It reminds me of what
Bruce Lipton said.
He said that every
single cell in our body
has a very small charge, and
if we lined up those charges,
it would be a bolt of lightning.
Now, what's
interesting about that
is that this tradition was
called the lightning practice.
[RUMBLING OF THUNDER]
>> [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> What is qi?
Qi is lifeforce energy.
This body is animated.
It moves.
It's alive, and qi is the
electricity that gives power
to every aspect of ourselves.
From the mind to the
body to the emotions,
qi is what keeps us in
harmony and in balance.
My name is Lee
Holden, and I've been
studying energy work, qigong,
acupuncture, massage therapy,
healing arts for over 25 years.
Now, Chinese medicine
went through a big shift
in the Cultural Revolution.
It changed from more of a
spiritual, energetic medicine
to more of a modern medicine.
This is something different.
It's a cultivation
and an energy practice
that some of these masters still
have, and it's very guarded.
It's very secretive,
so to be able to have
an experience, to be able to
capture some of this on film,
is really rare.
>> And so when you go in, and
you see how it's being run,
you don't expect these things.
You don't think of these things
going on behind hidden doors
because, often, they
say, oh, Buddhism
was lost through the
whole Cultural Revolution.
I mean, all the
high level stuff,
but it's actually not true.
>> [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> The most extreme
Siddhis, they call them,
are powers where you show off.
[LOUD SNIFFING]
>> OK, slow.
>> Really shifts your whole
perspective of the world.
>> [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> It's more powerful when
I experience the energy.
It's like, whoa,
whoa, whoa, this is--
what is this?
>> When you watch it,
it's like, whoa, cool.
But when you feel it,
it's 10 times more.
When I first felt that
electricity and power,
it felt like that moment in
"the Matrix" when he was like,
do you want the red
pill or the blue?
And all of a sudden, it was
like reality just changed
because I had this experience.
I traveled the world to
find somebody like this,
and David introduced me to him.
And this sifu, this master
teacher, was Shaolin trained.
>> I need to make a
correctional statement.
Upon a thorough investigation,
all these lineages,
people that you met, they
are actually Buddhist.
The common source of
all this knowledge,
it all goes back to Bodhidharma,
Tang Dynasty 5th-6th Century.
So to move to China and
then settled in Shaolin,
and so there is old
tradition there.
And after many
years of meditation,
he received some
sort of knowledge,
and he put it into written form.
So this one is a very
interesting statement
because, in the very
earliest representation,
the Buddha is represented
with the Cobra protecting him
and a mark on his chest.
This mark is known
as the swastika,
but it also has
another name and is
the sign of the thunder,
the thunder mark.
So these are the masters
that was of a Buddhist line,
but it was a pure land line.
The training was very different.
The power side of the Buddha is
represented by vajirapani, so
this very intense
visionary practice
where he really sees himself
with these very wrathful forms
until you fully
embody that state,
and then evoking
that moment when
he can see, go back and
understand that it's
all about the same principles.
If you do the practice of
mantras and connection with,
that's energies.
They call them as gods, sort of
intelligent energies together
with, of course, the set
of fundamental breathing
techniques and movements.
>> So did he do these
breathing techniques?
>> Of course.
>> Really?
Oh.
>> All of them.
It's universal.
I mean, there is no way around.
Either there are
very few people that
manage to find the
key inside their mind
and open these energies without
anything because it's here,
or you need to use some kind
of technique to trigger it.
Vajirapani means that
willed or the carrier
or the vajra, the vajra being,
again, this lightning bolt.
And so again, it's
very interesting
that the way that
you develop the power
is not necessarily so
technical, but it's
done through this,
again, intense embodiment
of a meaning, of
a mana structure.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> And I had the privilege of
learning some of his powerful
energetic practices.
>> A lot of the shamanistic
training you think of all the--
>> Right, the point
of Carlos Castaneda--
>> The point of awareness,
the point of assemblage,
whatever you want to call it.
It's the same, so we
need to be able to--
this point is fixed here, and
we need to be able to move it.
But before, we need to be able
to see it because how can you
move what you don't see.
So that's why they
say that, first,
the light of the shen,
the light has to appear,
and then you can direct it.
>> How do you grasp it?
>> Exactly.
Then you need to move it.
So if you remember
when we do this one,
so there is a point of
light far in the horizon.
You need to pull it
and learn to move it.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> I loved it.
What a great experience, though,
because everything just turns
qi.
Now, the sifu here asked
us not to show his face,
and in fact, in this scene,
it was very spontaneous.
It's almost like a
behind the scenes
because he said
no to any filming.
Like lots of
masters that we met,
they said, no, we don't
want to be filmed.
Not only are they
persecuted or used
by governments or
agencies, lots of things
that go on that we
don't even know about,
that particular morning, he
said, yes, you could film.
And we showed up
at the hotel room
and got a glimpse of
what a typical day is
like for him treating patients.
Sifu.
I'm spending the day
here with the master,
and again, he's diagnosing.
This is what he does
almost every patient.
Takes their pulse.
Listens to their energy.
When you listen
to the energy, you
get to see their
progress as well,
so patients will come every day
over a period of a week or two
weeks and see how the
shift in energy happens.
Now, when the energy shifts,
there's an unblocking.
The pulse changes.
The energy sensation
in your body changes.
So when you're
blocked often, it'll
feel like it bounces back.
The energy doesn't
go through your body.
It bounces back, but
then this magical thing
happens where the energy passes
freely through your system.
It's a very strong
current, and it ends up
going all the way
down to your feet.
Now, he is taking her
pulse, and pulse diagnosis
takes a long time to perfect.
And with a skill of qi and
understanding of this energy
system in the body,
you can listen to it,
and it gives you a
lot of information.
Now, in the West, we don't have
a word for the energy system.
The qi in the body
and the energy system
is like any other system.
It's something that provides us
with our life, our lifeforce.
It's really the spark
behind the heart.
It's the light in your mind.
It's the feeling
of your emotions.
So qi is what gives
power to everything,
and with his energy,
he'll power up your system
so that you feel more alive.
I'm bringing my patients in.
I'm bringing my
friends in, my family
in to have this rare
opportunity to see him.
So I'm very excited to get
my treatment right now.
The master right now
is taking my pulse.
This is part of traditional
Chinese medicine,
but unlike traditional
we have a master that
practices the old medicine.
This is a very different
style of medicine.
Now, Chinese medicine
was called the art
of preventing disease
and prolonging life,
prolonging life
meaning they're going
to prevent problems from
arising in the first place.
So as he listens
to the pulse, he'll
notice imbalances or
blockages in your body
that you don't even
know are there.
I've been practicing
qigong for 28 years,
so I'm very familiar with
energy and energy medicine.
But I've never experienced
anything like this,
so I'll try to explain
exactly what I'm
feeling as he's doing it.
There was a time in China that
this medicine was practiced
more regularly, but after
the Cultural Revolution,
medicine shifted and changed.
And so we're in the
presence of somebody
who's a gatekeeper of very
ancient wisdom and very
ancient understanding of
how the mind body energy
system actually works.
>> How is he receptive
to your energy?
>> He says I'm good.
I practice a lot,
and I've practiced
a lot of techniques of qigong
exercises and practices
and meditations that
he's recommended for me.
In fact, when I
first walked in, he
said that I looked younger
this year than I did last year,
so I got that going for me.
So now, he's going to
hold my hand, and--
>> Actually--
>> Oh, very strong current.
If you look at my hand, total
involuntary movement in my arm.
I feel it going all the
way out through my foot.
All my muscles on this
left side of my body
are completely contracted.
It unblocks the channels.
So powerful.
It's going down through my
arm, through the left side
of my body.
He's modulating the current.
I feel this hot, electrical
energy in the chest
and a very strong
current in the abdomen.
Important to breathe
through it because it
goes through the body
down to the feet.
That was a flash of bright
white light at this point, which
is a very special treatment.
When he hits this point, it
opens this mid eye center,
and it just is strong.
You feel your teeth
and your tongue
and a flash of light
in your forehead.
What a treat.
What a special,
special treat that was.
His healing power is
so profound in terms
of its physical sensations.
>> Right.
>> I mean, you feel
his electricity,
and you're like how does
this come out of one human
being's body?
It's just so
powerful, especially
in his diagnostic skills.
So he's going, here's
the potential for danger
later in your life because
your qi is depleted
in your kidneys or your heart.
This could cause these
kinds of problems.
Let's fix it now
before it ever arises.
And I think this is just
amazing kind of medicine.
>> Yes, really, really healing
because, and this is a little
personal, but I had
just had a miscarriage.
And it's very common.
Many women go through that.
You lose a lot of blood, and the
blood and the qi are connected.
So you become very
weak and tired a lot.
So I went to see the master
specifically for this,
and I didn't tell him anything.
He just looks at the
tongue, takes the pulse,
and then immediately, he
was like kidneys, deficient.
And so he really
worked on my kidneys,
and after I saw him
about five times--
I mean, my mind was blown.
The feeling of the electricity
that runs through the body,
and then afterwards,
I sat and meditated.
I didn't want to
move for two hours,
and just felt my kidneys
pulsing with warmth.
And I just smiled at
the kidneys and knew
that they were healing.
>> These pathways of energy
are called meridians,
and these meridians open
up with his treatments.
And each individual has
a unique and profound
powerful experience.
So we're going to go in.
We'll meet the master.
We're going to get our
pulse diagnosed, see
what's going on in your body.
How are you feeling?
>> Feel great.
>> Feel good?
This guy is in very
good shape, so let's see
what the master says.
Sometimes, you're in fantastic
shape, and he reads your pulse,
and he's like, you have no qi.
So just be prepared.
He feels something a little
bit different than we all feel,
and he'll notice things in
you that are future oriented.
So Chinese medicine is based
on the idea of prevention,
so prevent disease
before it arises
by reading the energy system.
>> Nice.
I'll just try to be as
open hearted as I can.
>> Yeah, just relax, and
you're in good hands.
>> All right.
>> Thank you.
Dr. Adam Kleinberg.
>> Hello.
>> The master is
listening to the pulse,
and this gives us an idea of
what to treat and how to treat.
In Chinese medicine,
you're going
to look at the energy that
goes to the internal organs,
so he might find something
with the liver, the heart,
the kidney, the spleen,
and speak to it.
Is the energy deficient?
Is it excess?
Is it blocked?
Is it stagnant?
And he can tell all of this
by listening to the pulse.
>> Yeah, I feel like my pulse
is stronger and that it's coming
up to meet his fingers.
Almost like he's
sending in some energy
to have it come back to him.
>> And this part of the
treatment is very subtle.
Tongue diagnosis is, again,
part of Chinese medicine.
The tongue is the
map of the body.
It's a reflection.
>> Down?
>> Yeah, look down.
>> Look down.
>> [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> [DISTORTED SPEECH]
>> Look at the body in
terms of its energy.
Is there too much water?
Is there too much dry?
So in this particular
case, the master
is saying there's
too much dampness,
and so we want to clear out
the dampness so that the qi
circulates smoothly.
>> I'll have you
sit right there.
>> So what the master's going
to do is open your kidney points
real quick, and then you're
going to-- and he'll stand up,
and he'll have you
stand on a wet towel.
Just give him your feet.
>> Oh.
>> The reason you stand on a
wet towel is because the current
that goes through your
body needs a ground.
So now stand up.
Stand there and
then just breathe.
Maybe shake a little bit
before you jump on the towel.
Just shake your body.
Yeah, jump up and down.
Get ready.
Shake it out.
Good.
Stand on the towel, and then
when he gives you the energy,
just breathe through it.
It's going to be strong.
>> [INHALES SHARPLY]
[AUDIBLE GASPING]
>> Do you feel something?
>> Yeah.
It's hard to explain.
Right?
>> Yes.
>> Yeah.
>> Oh, it's wonderful.
>> [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> Both open.
Well, it's good.
He says your energy's open.
That's very rare.
You're very good.
That's awesome.
>> It just needs
open-heartedness.
That's all.
>> Yeah.
>> Mm.
[LAUGHING] That was awesome.
Yeah.
Nice.
>> You helped me so much.
>> Yeah.
Yeah.
Incredible, right?
>> Yeah.
Truly, truly
incredible experience.
Thank you.
>> Yeah.
>> Can you give us in a
couple of words or a couple
of sentences what
you think you felt?
>> Yeah, what'd you feel?
>> An ability to channel a
universal energy through his
vessel.
This is one of the
most beautiful things
I've ever felt in my life.
So powerful, but so
gentle at the same time.
Just very-- like an overwhelming
feeling of compassion
in the form of energy.
Powerful, physically as well.
>> Yeah.
Yeah.
>> Very objectively powerful.
>> Mm-hmm.
>> Thank you so much.
>> Yeah, have a seat.
Take some breaths.
It's nice to have that
so obvious and tangible
manifesting in an experience.
That's what they call
the lightning, so
the spiritual lightning.
When you feel it, it's there.
It confirms
everything that maybe
was a belief or a
subtle experience
or a gentle experience
or a thought,
and then it's just
in manifestation.
And often what it will do is
it'll seal all that together
as an experiential thing because
to know something in your head
is different than to
really experience it.
>> The difference between
Western religion's dogma
and Eastern religion's
experiential, you know?
To have it as a
firsthand experience
is something very different
than looking up and--
>> Yeah.
An experience is always
very hard to explain,
but we could see it through
your face and your--
we could see you
having an experience.
It's just amazing.
Yeah.
>> Yeah, even now, it's just
almost like a very strong
emotional experience.
That's what I'm feeling
more than anything.
More than the physical,
it's the emotional residue.
>> Yeah, it definitely relates
because qi is something that
integrates mind,
emotions, and body,
so we feel it on all three
or four levels of ourselves.
Right?
I mean-- and you being sensitive
to energy and spirituality
and practice and doing
your work all these years,
and then all of a
sudden, to have that,
it's all comes together.
>> Very powerful.
And even just him working his
hand down, almost turning up
the energy as he-- you know?
>> Yeah.
>> Wow.
>> Right, it's wow.
>> Just wow.
>> Really?
That comes from a human being?
>> Yeah.
Really powerful.
>> We're really tapping into
what the human potential is.
What's fascinating to me is
that you get a firsthand account
of somebody who's trained for
years and years and years,
so I consider him a gold
medallist in these arts.
He's just the top of his game,
and to experience somebody
with that level of ability and
cultivation is really rare.
>> Yeah.
>> I don't even know how I'm
going to put this in words
to people.
>> Yeah, exactly.
>> Because it's more than
just the physical feeling.
So much more than that.
>> Yeah, yeah, like you said,
it'll be interesting to see how
you feel tonight, tomorrow,
with the lasting effects
of the practice.
It's a real awakening.
These experiences kind
of help us to solidify.
You actually have to
have the experience
to really develop true wisdom.
>> Yeah, for sure.
>> Yeah.
Thanks, Lee.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> One of the questions that
kept arising was if David could
demonstrate this powerful energy
and electricity that you saw
with the leaf man
earlier in the episodes,
and here with Lao Chen.
And David said that he
has cultivated this power.
He's actually one of
the only Westerners
to develop the lightning
power in his own body.
Now, here, we're going to
see David send and give
this electricity to a 6
foot 7 Olympic athlete.
Now, this guy is big and
strong physiologically,
but energetically, when
David sends the electricity,
he has a profound experience.
Get a sense of what this
is all about by witnessing
what David's going
through and what
this Olympic athlete's going
through as David sends him
energy.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> [AUDIBLE EXHALING]
>> Here you go.
[DEVICE BEEPS]
>> Yeah, baby.
Thank you.
It worked.
>> Jason what did you--
give what you felt right now.
What just happened?
>> Well, it was like putting
your hand in a socket,
basically electric socket,
and it was moving up through
the arm, maybe a little
bit past the elbow.
And then when he
moved back out, it
became concentrated down through
my fingers, and it was intense.
I mean, it was intense
the whole time,
but it got more intense,
pouring it down into here.
>> Yeah, try to pull it back.
>> Yeah.
Yeah.
>> That's a part of the Buddha.
>> It worked.
>> Slowly, slowly.
That's exactly how it felt. It
just came right down to here.
Yeah.
>> What did it feel like?
>> Well, it literally felt like
everything was fine and normal,
and all of a sudden, bzzzt,
it was just zapped full of--
I almost felt a bit
contorted, right?
It was, whoa, and just
sort of took over.
It was really,
really fascinating.
Amazing.
Yeah, amazing.
>> Next time we try up here.
>> I'm ready.
>> I'm not.
[LAUGHING]
>> Thank you.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> David's going to explain a
little bit more about the depth
and the practice that's
behind the energy cultivation.
>> And then the light appear.
Exactly the same.
>> Some of these practices
that you've taught me,
when I'm doing the practice,
it's just like a light appears.
There's no images.
There's nothing.
It's just, here is--
like in the movie, you say
you see this bright light,
and it's just like
the light went on.
And you described it as
looking into the mirror
of the luminosity of
your mind, and it's
such an extraordinary
experience that this mind body
connection is a continuum.
Are these people that
have this Kundalini
energy that you talked about--
are they godlike?
How do they get it?
Is it something they cultivate?
Is that something
they're born with?
>> Let us first go full circle.
So in all the cultures
I've traveled,
I found this recurrent
theme, and so it led me
to a very precocious
obsession with the mythology
of the thunder and
the lightning bolts.
We begin with the
very early Vedic gods.
The King of the
gods of the Vedas
was Indra, the god of thunder
and the almighty Zeus,
ruler of heaven.
He wields the power of the
lightning bolt. In Buddhist
mythology, the king
of the god, Chakra.
In Chinese mythology, that's
the story of the Monkey
King is brought, in the
presence of the Buddha,
by the eight thunder gods.
So coming back to
your question, I
found people who
embody this power--
are they god?
No, the ones that I have met
were definitely people like you
and I, flesh and blood.
But they wield this
power, and although,
in the different cultures,
it appears sometimes
to be paradoxically
different, there
are always those
underlying common elements.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> I have one more story.
You want--
>> Yeah, tell me.
>> It reminds me of, in China,
I was staying on a Buddhist
island called Putuoshan, and I
was hinting towards the nuns,
can you show me some special
monks with special powers
or nuns with special powers?
Is there anybody?
And they're like,
yes, there's some.
And once they trusted me,
and they understood that--
what I was doing, why I wanted
to, my intention was good,
they took me.
And keep in mind, it's
China, still communist,
and they have the Communist
Buddhism, basically.
The Buddhist temples
are communist,
and so when you go in, and you
see just how it's being run,
you don't expect these things.
You don't think of
these things going on
behind the hidden doors
because, often, they
say, oh, Buddhism was lost
through the whole Cultural
Revolution--
I mean, all the
high level stuff.
But it's actually not true.
There's amazing
practitioners who
still have this determination
to reach high levels.
So she took me to a private
temple on the island.
Nobody was there
except one caretaker,
and walking up this
little room, and I
was able to peek
through a peephole
and see a monk sitting at a
table, a low Chinese table.
His beard had grown
out onto the floor,
and his robes were so beautiful,
and he just stood there.
And the energy
that was emanating,
just pouring out this
room, was like thick soup.
And I felt like it was a movie
or something, unbelievable,
and he writes
discourses that are
read to the nuns and monks
that get morning service.
And that he's so
psychic, he knows
if there's any fights going
on or all the political stuff
going on in the temple.
And he will address
these certain issues
and give little hints and
lectures to the nuns and monks
to keep them on track.
Been in this room for seven
years without leaving.
Seven years.
So these determined people
out there that are really
pushing themselves to cultivate
their potential-- yeah,
you have this extreme,
and then you have people
working in the real world.
>> Yeah
>> But it's all there because
you don't know when the Divine
Grace actually is
going to step in.
>> Yeah.
>> Because for myself, mostly,
it's when I'm not having any
expectations in my practice
that suddenly energy comes,
and I'm like, whoa.
I just leveled up.
Now, how to sustain that
is another question,
but to get those moments
of really high insight,
it's something from grace.
It's something from
complete universe surrender.
>> I mean, we are in
relationship with the universe,
nature, and something that's
beyond these five senses.
And so that grace, as
you're talking about,
we see it a lot in
determined practitioners.
They really practice,
they really practice,
and then something
else meets them.
There's a relationship that
happens, that is established,
that's beyond, let's say,
our physical relationships,
but something with the
divine that infuses them
with some abilities, vision,
practice, inspiration,
and we all feel that at
some moments in our lives.
And like you said, I
think one of those clues
is to have determined
practice detached from results
and allowing things to unfold.
If we are practicing,
it's working the garden,
but ultimately, nature takes
that seed, and something
miraculous happens
where the roots grow.
It breaks through the ground.
It grows into the light, and
we just are facilitating.
And we want to do that same
with our own inner potential.
We facilitate these things
to grow, blossom, and bloom,
and sometimes, we
don't know what seeds
are in here that are growing.
And it's an exciting process.
[MUSIC PLAYING]